These data arose from a collaboration between  Andreas Buja, Werner
Stuetzle and Martin Maechler, and we used as an illustration in the
paper on Penalized Discriminant Analysis by Hastie, Buja and
Tibshirani (1995), referenced in the text. 

The data were extracted from the TIMIT database (TIMIT
Acoustic-Phonetic Continuous Speech Corpus, NTIS, US Dept of Commerce)
which is a widely used resource for research in speech recognition.  A
dataset was formed by selecting five phonemes for
classification based on digitized speech from this database.  The
phonemes are transcribed as follows: "sh" as in "she", "dcl" as in
"dark", "iy" as the vowel in "she", "aa" as the vowel in "dark", and
"ao" as the first vowel in "water".  From continuous speech of 50 male
speakers, 4509 speech frames of 32 msec duration were selected,
approximately 2 examples of each phoneme from each speaker.  Each
speech frame is represented by 512 samples at a 16kHz sampling rate,
and each frame represents one of the above five phonemes.  The
breakdown of the 4509 speech frames into phoneme frequencies is as
follows:

  aa   ao dcl   iy  sh 
 695 1022 757 1163 872

From each speech frame, we computed a log-periodogram, which is one of
several widely used methods for casting speech data in a form suitable
for speech recognition.  Thus the data used in what follows consist of
4509 log-periodograms of length 256, with known class (phoneme)
memberships. 

The data contain 256 columns labelled "x.1" - "x.256", a response
column labelled "g", and a column labelled "speaker" identifying the
diffferent speakers.

------- COMPLEMENTS D INFORMATIONS -------
Les speakers disaient tous la meme phrase : She had your dark suit in 
greasy wash water all year.

train.dr1.mcpm0.sa1
dr : signifie Speaker dialect region number (1 - New England; 2 - Northern; 
3 - North Midland; 4 - South Midland; 5 - Southern; 6 - New York City
; 7 - Western; 8 - Army Brat (moved around))
mcpm0 : Ca doit etre l'identifiant du speaker
sa1 : tous les speakers ont ce code

La division de l'ensemble de test/train est une simple suggestion.
Elle a été effectué selon les criteres suivant :
  1- Roughly 20 to 30% of the corpus should be used for testing purposes,
     leaving the remaining 70 to 80% for training.

  2- No speaker should appear in both the training and testing portions.

  3- All the dialect regions should be represented in both subsets, with 
     at least 1 male and 1 female speaker from each dialect.f

  4- The amount of overlap of text material in the two subsets should be
     minimized; if possible no texts should be identical. (ne nous concerne pas)

  5- All the phonemes should be covered in the test material, preferably
     each phoneme should occur multiple times in different contexts.